.TH HEX2BDF-SPLIT 1 "2008 Jul 06"
.SH NAME
hex2bdf-split \- Convert a GNU Unifont .hex file into single-width BDF fonts.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B hex2bdf-split n < input_font.hex > halfwidth_output_font.bdf
.br
.B hex2bdf-split y < input_font.hex > fullwidth_output_font.bdf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hex2bdf-split
reads a sorted GNU Unifont .hex file (sorted with the Unix
.B sort
utility) from stdin and writes a BDF version of the font
to stdout.  This utility was adapted from the original hex2bdf
script to accomodate charcell behavior in older X11 implementations.
It is present for historical reasons, but will probably be removed
in a future distribution.  Dependency on this program is discouraged.
The main software application written to use the GNU Unifont, the
international editor Yudit, does not need a split font.  In addition,
the GNU Unifont now has a TrueType version that makes most other use
of the BDF version obsolete.
.PP
.B hex2bdf-split
takes one argument: "y" or "n".  If "n" is specified, the output
font is set to half-width (8 pixels wide) and "-h-" (for half-width)
appears as the X Logical Font Descriptor (XLFD) ADD_STYLE_NAME value.
If "y" is specified, the output font is set to full-width (16 pixels wide),
and "-f-" (for full-width) appears as the X Logical Font Descriptor (XLFD)
ADD_STYLE_NAME value.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
*.hex GNU Unifont font files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unibmp2hex (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unihex2bmp (1),
.BR unipagecount (1),
.BR uniunmask (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B hex2bdf-split
was written by David Starner, based upon the original
.B hex2bdf
Perl script by Roman Czyborra.
.SH LICENSE
.B hex2bdf-split
is Copyright \(co 1999 David Starner, and is released under the following
terms (taken from http://czyborra.com/):
.PP
"All of my works you find here are freeware. You may freely copy, use, quote,
modify or redistribute them as long as you properly attribute my contribution
and have given a quick thought about whether Roman might perhaps be interested
to read what you did with his stuff. Horizontal rules don't apply."
.SH BUGS
No known bugs exist.
