.TH UNIBMP2HEX 1 "2007 Dec 31"
.SH NAME
unibmp2hex \- Bitmap graphics file to GNU Unifont .hex file converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B unibmp2hex
[-phexpage] [-iinput_file] [-ooutput_file] [-w]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unibmp2hex
reads a bitmap produced by
.B unihex2bmp
before or after editing, and converts it back into a Unifont .hex format
file.  The graphics file contains a block of 256 Unicode code points
arranged in a 16 by 16 grid.  Each code point appears in a 32 by 32
pixel grid.  Characters are either 16 rows by 8 columns, or 16 rows by
16 columns.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
-ppagenum
Specify that the code points will be assigned to the 256 block space
.I pagenum
in the .hex file.  If not specified,
.B unibmp2hex
will determine the appropriate block by reading the row and column
headers.  Note that "page" is not a standard
Unicode term.  It refers to an output bitmap graphics page of
16 by 16 code points.
If
.I pagenum
is greater than FF, the block resides above the Unicode Basic
Multilingual Plane. In that event, the .hex file will contain
eight digit hexadecimal code points rather than the Unifont
standard of four hexadecimal code points.
.TP
-i
Specify the input file. The default is stdin.
.TP
-o
Specify the output file. The default is stdout.
.TP
-w
Force all output .hex glyphs to be 16 pixels wide rather than dual
width (8 or 16 pixels).
.PP
Sample usage:
.PP
unibmp2hex -imy_input_file.bmp -omy_output_file.hex
.SH FILES
.TP 15
*.bmp or *.wbmp graphics files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2bdf-split (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unihex2bmp (1),
.BR unipagecount (1),
.BR uniunmask (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B unibmp2hex
was written by Paul Hardy.
.SH LICENSE
.B unibmp2hex
is Copyright \(co 2007, 2008 Paul Hardy, and is released under version 2 of
the GNU General Public License, or (at your option) a later version.
.SH BUGS
No known real bugs exist, except that this software does not perform
extensive error checking on its input files.  If they're not in the
format of the original bitmapped output from
.B unihex2bmp,
all bets are off.
.PP
If the output file is for a "page" containing space code points and the
bitmap file squares for those code points are not empty,
.B unibmp2hex
preserve the graphics as they are drawn.  They will be removed later
using
.B uniunmask,
with spaces of the appropriate width from a substitutes.hex file.
