.TH UNIHEX2BMP 1 "2007 Dec 31"
.SH NAME
unihex2bmp \- GNU Unifont .hex file to bitmap graphics file converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B unihex2bmp
[-phexpage] [-iinput_file] [-ooutput_file] [-f] [-w]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unihex2bmp
reads a GNU Unifont .hex file Unicode page of 256 code points
and converts the page into a Microsoft Windows Bitmap (.bmp) or
Wireless Bitmap (.wbmp) file.  The bitmap file displays the glyphs
of a Unicode block of 256 code points in a 32 by 32 pixel grid.
The glyphs themselves must be 16 rows, and either 8 columns or
16 columns wide. The default page is 0; that is, the range
U+0000 throught U+00FF.
.PP
The bitmap can be printed.  It can also be edited with a bitmap editor.
An edited bitmap can then be re-converted into a GNU Unifont .hex file
with the
.B unibmp2hex
command.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
-ppagenum
Extract page
.I pagenum
from the .hex file.  The default is Page 0 (Unicode range
U+0000 through U+00FF).  Note that "page" is not a standard
Unicode term.  It refers to an output bitmap graphics page of
16 by 16 code points.
.TP
-i
Specify the input file. The default is stdin.
.TP
-o
Specify the output file. The default is stdout.
.TP
-f
"Flip" (transpose) the grid so it matches the Unicode standard order.
.TP
-w
Produce a Wireless Bitmap format file instead of a Microsoft Windows
Bitmap file.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
*.hex GNU Unifont font files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2bdf-split (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unibmp2hex (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unipagecount (1),
.BR uniunmask (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B unihex2bmp
was written by Paul Hardy.
.SH LICENSE
.B unihex2bmp
is Copyright \(co 2007 Paul Hardy, and is released under version 2 of
the GNU General Public License, or (at your option) a later version.
.SH BUGS
No known real bugs exist, except that this software does not perform
extensive error checking on its input files.  If they're not in the
format of the original GNU Unifont hex file, all bets are off.
Lines can be terminated either with carriage return, or
carriage return plus line feed.
