.TH UNIPAGECOUNT 1 "2007 Dec 31"
.SH NAME
unipagecount \- Count the assigned code points in a GNU Unifont .hex file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B unipagecount
[-ppagenum] [-h|-l]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unipagecount
reads a GNU Unifont .hex file from stdin and prints a 16 by 16 grid of the
number of defined code points in each 256 character block to stdout.
Code points proceed from left to right, then top to bottom.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.TP
-ppagenum
Just print information on one 256 code point "page" rather than
the entire Basic Multilingual Plane.  This prints a 16 by 16 table with
an asterisk in every code point that has an assigned glyph.
.TP
-h
Print an HTML table with color-coded cell background colors
instead of a plain text table.
.TP
-l
[The letter "l" ]: Print hyperlink to font bitmaps in the HTML table.
To create the bitmaps themselves, use the unihex2bmp program.
The bitmaps are assumed to be in the directory "bmp/".
.SH FILES
.TP 15
*.hex GNU Unifont font files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2bdf-split (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unibmp2hex (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unihex2bmp (1),
.BR uniunmask (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B unipagecount
was written by Paul Hardy.
.SH LICENSE
.B unipagecount
is Copyright \(co 2007 Paul Hardy, and is released under version 2 of
the GNU General Public License, or (at your option) a later version.
.SH BUGS
No known real bugs exist, except that this software does not perform
extensive error checking on its input files.  If they're not in the
format of the original GNU Unifont hex file, all bets are off.
