.TH UNIUNMASK 1 "2008 Jul 6"
.SH NAME
uniunmask \- XOR bits or substitute glyphs in a GNU Unifont file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B uniunmask
[-iinput_file] [-ooutput_file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uniunmask
reads a GNU Unifont .hex file.  As it reads the font file, it scans
for code points matching entries in the "masks.hex" and "substitutes.hex"
files.  "masks.hex" and "substitutes.hex" are also in GNU Unifont .hex
format, ordered by Unicode code point (the hexadecimal number to the
left of the colon on each line).
.PP
If a code point is encountered from "substitutes.hex", the input code
point in the original .hex file is ignored (as is any entry with the
same code point in "masks.hex") and the glyph from "substitutes.hex"
is written to the output file.
.PP
Otherwise, if a code point is encountered from "masks.hex", the input
glyph in the original .hex file is XORed with the bits in the "masks.hex"
entry.  The result of this XOR operation is written to the output file.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
-i
Specify the input file. The default is stdin.
.TP
-o
Specify the output file. The default is stdout.
.SH FILES
.TP 15
masks.hex, substitutes.hex, *.hex GNU Unifont font files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bdfimplode (1),
.BR hex2bdf (1),
.BR hex2bdf-split (1),
.BR hex2sfd (1),
.BR hexbraille (1),
.BR hexdraw (1),
.BR hexmerge (1),
.BR johab2ucs2 (1),
.BR unibmp2hex (1),
.BR unicoverage (1),
.BR unidup (1),
.BR unihex2bmp (1),
.BR unipagecount (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B uniunmask
was written by Paul Hardy.
.SH LICENSE
.B uniunmask
is Copyright \(co 2007 Paul Hardy, and is released under version 2 of
the GNU General Public License, or (at your option) a later version.
.SH BUGS
No known real bugs exist, except that this software does not perform
extensive error checking on its input files.  If they're not in the
format of the original GNU Unifont hex file, all bets are off.
